README.md, before:

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![Build][build-shield]][build-url]


<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

  <h3 align="center">EOEPCA system</h3>

  <p align="center">
    EOEPCA Reference Implementation - System
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</p>


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
## Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [About The Project](#about-the-project)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [System Documentation](#system-documentation)
- [Technical Domains](#technical-domains)
  - [User Management](#user-management)
  - [Processing and Chaining](#processing-and-chaining)
  - [Resource Management](#resource-management)
- [Releases](#releases)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

EO Exploitation Platform Common Architecture (EOEPCA)

The goal of the “Common Architecture” is to define and agree the technical interfaces for the future exploitation of Earth Observation data in a distributed environment. The Common Architecture will thus provide the interfaces to facilitate the federation of different EO resources into a “Network of EO Resources”. The “Common Architecture” will be defined using open interfaces that link the different resources (building blocks) so that a user can efficiently access and consume the disparate services of the “Network of EO Resources”.

This repository represents the system integration of the building block that comprise the **Reference Implementation** of the Common Architecture.

The system is designed for deployment to cloud infrastructure orchestrated by a Kubernetes cluster. We include here the automation required to provision, deploy and test the emerging EOEPCA system.

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

The EOEPCA system deployment comprises several steps. Instructions are provided for both cloud deployment, and local deployment for development purposes.

The first step is to clone this repository to your local platform...
```
$ git clone --branch v0.1.1 git@github.com:EOEPCA/eoepca.git
```
NOTE that this clones the specific tag that is well tested. For the latest development branch the `--branch` option should be omitted.

Step | Cloud (OpenStack) | Local Developer
-----|-------------------|----------------
Infrastructure | [CREODIAS](./creodias/README.md) | n/a *(local developer platform)*
Kubernetes Cluster | [Rancher Kubernetes Engine](./kubernetes/README.md) | [Minikube](./minikube/README.md)
EOEPCA System Deployment | [Deploy with Terraform](./terraform/test/README.md) | [Deploy with Terraform](./terraform/test/README.md)
Acceptance Test | [Run Test Suite](./test/acceptance/README.md) | [Run Test Suite](./test/acceptance/README.md)

### Hostnames and DNS

To ease development/testing, the EOEPCA deployment is configured to use host/service names that embed IP-addresses - which avoids the need to configure public nameservers, (as would be necessary for a production deployment). Our services are exposed through Kubernetes ingress rules that use name-based routing, and so simple IP-addresses are insufficient. Therefore, we exploit the services of [nip.io](https://nip.io/) that provides dynamic DNS in which the hostname->IP-adress mapping is embedded in the hostname.

Thus, we use host/service names of the form `<service-name>.<public-ip>.nip.io`, where the `<public-ip>` is the public-facing IP-address of the deployment. For cloud deployment the public IP is that of the cloud load-balancer, or for minikube it is the `minikube ip` - for example `workspace.172.17.0.3.nip.io`.

The deployment scripts (linked in the above table) attempt to intelligently determine the public IP and so configure the service DNS names without intervention. For example, the output of CREODIAS infrastructure setup is interrogated to determine the IP-address of the public cloud load-balancer, which is then injected into the deployment configuration. Similarly for a local developer setup in which the minikube IP-address is used.

## System Documentation

* [Use Case Analysis Document](https://eoepca.github.io/use-case-analysis/)
* [Master System Design Document](https://eoepca.github.io/master-system-design/)
* [Master System ICD Document](https://eoepca.github.io/master-system-icd/)


## Technical Domains

### User Management

Building Block | Repository | Documentation
---------------|------------|--------------
Login Service | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-login-service | https://eoepca.github.io/um-login-service/
User Profile | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-user-profile | https://eoepca.github.io/um-user-profile/
Policy Enforcement Point (PEP) | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-pep-engine | https://eoepca.github.io/um-pep-engine/
Policy Decision Point (PDP) | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-pep-engine | https://eoepca.github.io/um-pep-engine/

### Processing and Chaining

Building Block | Repository | Documentation
---------------|------------|--------------
Application Deployment & Execution Service (ADES) | https://github.com/EOEPCA/proc-ades | https://eoepca.github.io/proc-ades/

### Resource Management

Not started yet


<!-- Releases -->
## Releases

EOEPCA system releases are made to provide integrated deployments of the developed building blocks. The release history is as follows:

* 06/08/2020 - [Release 0.1.1](release-notes/release-0.1.1.md)
* 22/06/2020 - [Release 0.1](release-notes/release-0.1.md)

<!-- ISSUES -->
## Issues

See the [open issues](https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues) for a list of proposed features (and known issues).

<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the Apache-2.0 License. See `LICENSE` for more information.


<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Project Link: [Project Home (https://eoepca.github.io/)](https://eoepca.github.io/)


<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->
## Acknowledgements

* README.md is based on [this template](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template) by [Othneil Drew](https://github.com/othneildrew).


<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[forks-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[stars-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[issues-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[license-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/blob/master/LICENSE
[build-shield]: https://www.travis-ci.com/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?branch=master
[build-url]: https://travis-ci.com/github/EOEPCA/eoepca
[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png

Commit message:

Update the nginx ingress controller to latest release version Added scripts to use k3s as an alternative to minikube Update travis job for current scripts

README.md, after:

<!-- PROJECT SHIELDS -->
<!--
*** See the bottom of this document for the declaration of the reference variables
*** for contributors-url, forks-url, etc. This is an optional, concise syntax you may use.
*** https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links
-->
[![Contributors][contributors-shield]][contributors-url]
[![Forks][forks-shield]][forks-url]
[![Stargazers][stars-shield]][stars-url]
[![Issues][issues-shield]][issues-url]
[![License][license-shield]][license-url]
[![Build][build-shield]][build-url]


<!-- PROJECT LOGO -->
<br />
<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca">
    <img src="images/logo.png" alt="Logo" width="80" height="80">
  </a>

  <h3 align="center">EOEPCA system</h3>

  <p align="center">
    EOEPCA Reference Implementation - System
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca"><strong>Explore the docs »</strong></a>
    <br />
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca">View Demo</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues">Report Bug</a>
    ·
    <a href="https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues">Request Feature</a>
  </p>
</p>


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
## Table of Contents

- [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
- [About The Project](#about-the-project)
- [Getting Started](#getting-started)
- [System Documentation](#system-documentation)
- [Technical Domains](#technical-domains)
  - [User Management](#user-management)
  - [Processing and Chaining](#processing-and-chaining)
  - [Resource Management](#resource-management)
- [Releases](#releases)
- [Issues](#issues)
- [License](#license)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [Acknowledgements](#acknowledgements)


<!-- ABOUT THE PROJECT -->
## About The Project

EO Exploitation Platform Common Architecture (EOEPCA)

The goal of the “Common Architecture” is to define and agree the technical interfaces for the future exploitation of Earth Observation data in a distributed environment. The Common Architecture will thus provide the interfaces to facilitate the federation of different EO resources into a “Network of EO Resources”. The “Common Architecture” will be defined using open interfaces that link the different resources (building blocks) so that a user can efficiently access and consume the disparate services of the “Network of EO Resources”.

This repository represents the system integration of the building block that comprise the **Reference Implementation** of the Common Architecture.

The system is designed for deployment to cloud infrastructure orchestrated by a Kubernetes cluster. We include here the automation required to provision, deploy and test the emerging EOEPCA system.

<!-- GETTING STARTED -->
## Getting Started

The EOEPCA system deployment comprises several steps. Instructions are provided for both cloud deployment, and local deployment for development purposes.

The first step is to clone this repository to your local platform...
```
$ git clone --branch v0.1.1 git@github.com:EOEPCA/eoepca.git
```
NOTE that this clones the specific tag that is well tested. For the latest development branch the `--branch` option should be omitted.

Step | Cloud (OpenStack) | Local Developer
-----|-------------------|----------------
Infrastructure | [CREODIAS](./creodias/README.md) | n/a *(local developer platform)*
Kubernetes Cluster | [Rancher Kubernetes Engine](./kubernetes/README.md) | [Minikube](./minikube/README.md)
EOEPCA System Deployment | [Deploy with Terraform](./terraform/test/README.md) | [Deploy with Terraform](./terraform/test/README.md)
Acceptance Test | [Run Test Suite](./test/acceptance/README.md) | [Run Test Suite](./test/acceptance/README.md)

### Hostnames and DNS

To ease development/testing, the EOEPCA deployment is configured to use host/service names that embed IP-addresses - which avoids the need to configure public nameservers, (as would be necessary for a production deployment). Our services are exposed through Kubernetes ingress rules that use name-based routing, and so simple IP-addresses are insufficient. Therefore, we exploit the services of [nip.io](https://nip.io/) that provides dynamic DNS in which the hostname->IP-adress mapping is embedded in the hostname.

Thus, we use host/service names of the form `<service-name>.<public-ip>.nip.io`, where the `<public-ip>` is the public-facing IP-address of the deployment. For cloud deployment the public IP is that of the cloud load-balancer, or for minikube it is the `minikube ip` - for example `workspace.172.17.0.3.nip.io`.

The deployment scripts (linked in the above table) attempt to intelligently determine the public IP and so configure the service DNS names without intervention. For example, the output of CREODIAS infrastructure setup is interrogated to determine the IP-address of the public cloud load-balancer, which is then injected into the deployment configuration. Similarly for a local developer setup in which the 'local' kubernetes IP-address is used (deduced as the IP address of the k8s node (assumed single node)).

## System Documentation

* [Use Case Analysis Document](https://eoepca.github.io/use-case-analysis/)
* [Master System Design Document](https://eoepca.github.io/master-system-design/)
* [Master System ICD Document](https://eoepca.github.io/master-system-icd/)


## Technical Domains

### User Management

Building Block | Repository | Documentation
---------------|------------|--------------
Login Service | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-login-service | https://eoepca.github.io/um-login-service/
User Profile | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-user-profile | https://eoepca.github.io/um-user-profile/
Policy Enforcement Point (PEP) | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-pep-engine | https://eoepca.github.io/um-pep-engine/
Policy Decision Point (PDP) | https://github.com/EOEPCA/um-pep-engine | https://eoepca.github.io/um-pep-engine/

### Processing and Chaining

Building Block | Repository | Documentation
---------------|------------|--------------
Application Deployment & Execution Service (ADES) | https://github.com/EOEPCA/proc-ades | https://eoepca.github.io/proc-ades/

### Resource Management

Not started yet


<!-- Releases -->
## Releases

EOEPCA system releases are made to provide integrated deployments of the developed building blocks. The release history is as follows:

* 06/08/2020 - [Release 0.1.1](release-notes/release-0.1.1.md)
* 22/06/2020 - [Release 0.1](release-notes/release-0.1.md)

<!-- ISSUES -->
## Issues

See the [open issues](https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues) for a list of proposed features (and known issues).

<!-- LICENSE -->
## License

Distributed under the Apache-2.0 License. See `LICENSE` for more information.


<!-- CONTACT -->
## Contact

Project Link: [Project Home (https://eoepca.github.io/)](https://eoepca.github.io/)


<!-- ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS -->
## Acknowledgements

* README.md is based on [this template](https://github.com/othneildrew/Best-README-Template) by [Othneil Drew](https://github.com/othneildrew).


<!-- MARKDOWN LINKS & IMAGES -->
<!-- https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/#reference-style-links -->
[contributors-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/contributors/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[contributors-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/graphs/contributors
[forks-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/forks/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[forks-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/network/members
[stars-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/stars/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[stars-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/stargazers
[issues-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/issues/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[issues-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/issues
[license-shield]: https://img.shields.io/github/license/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?style=flat-square
[license-url]: https://github.com/EOEPCA/eoepca/blob/master/LICENSE
[build-shield]: https://www.travis-ci.com/EOEPCA/eoepca.svg?branch=master
[build-url]: https://travis-ci.com/github/EOEPCA/eoepca
[product-screenshot]: images/screenshot.png
