minikube/README.md, before:

# Minikube Setup

This directory contains files to create a local [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/).

The local minikube cluster facilitates the local deployment (for development/testing purposes) of the EOEPCA system and/or individual building blocks.

## Install kubectl

For k8s cluster adminstration the kubectl command must be installed. See [Kubernetes website](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) for installation instructions.

Alternatively, use helper script [install-kubectl.sh](../bin/install-kubectl.sh)...
```
$ ../bin/install-kubectl.sh
```

## Install minikube

Minikube can be installed by following the instructions on the [Minikube website](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io).

Alternatively, use helper script [setup-minikube.sh](./setup-minikube.sh) to download and install Minikube...
```
$ ./setup-minikube.sh
```

## Next Steps

Once the Kubernetes cluster is provisioned, the next step is to proceed with the deployment of the [EOEPCA system](../terraform/test/README.md).

Commit message:

Updated minikube setup to account for running natively in a VM

minikube/README.md, after:

# Minikube Setup

This directory contains files to create a local [Kubernetes](https://kubernetes.io/) cluster using [minikube](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io/).

The local minikube cluster facilitates the local deployment (for development/testing purposes) of the EOEPCA system and/or individual building blocks.

## Install kubectl

For k8s cluster adminstration the kubectl command must be installed. See [Kubernetes website](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/install-kubectl/) for installation instructions.

Alternatively, use helper script [install-kubectl.sh](../bin/install-kubectl.sh)...
```
$ bin/install-kubectl.sh
```

## Install minikube

Minikube can be installed by following the instructions on the [Minikube website](https://minikube.sigs.k8s.io).

Alternatively, use helper script [setup-minikube.sh](./setup-minikube.sh) to download and install Minikube...
```
$ minikube/setup-minikube.sh
```

NOTE for running minikube in a VM...<br>
The setup-minikube.sh script retains the default (preferred) dpeloyment of minikube as a docker container. This is not ideal if running minikube inside a VM. In this case it is better to run minikube natively inside VM using the 'none' driver, rather than the 'docker' driver. This can be achieved by running the script as follows...
```
$ minikube/setup-minikube.sh native
```

## Next Steps

Once the Kubernetes cluster is provisioned, the next step is to proceed with the deployment of the [EOEPCA system](../terraform/test/README.md).
